Andrew Ryan weeks one night while
crossing the Atlantic Aniston liner the
Olympian his sleep interrupted with a
singular purpose here he shouts to his
crewmen and as he wipes sleep from his
eyes full stop
we begin building here
refitted for heavy construction the
Olympian returns with a cargo the
state-of-the-art submersible platform
nicknamed ferry supplies and workers to
the seafloor fathoms below after initial
supplies have been brought to the
seafloor the platform is permanently
moored in the sediment massive iron
girders are some hundreds of feet into
the rock itself below the platform
engineers work to overcome obstacles
such as diamond hard rock obstinate sea
life and unexpected after the platform
is secured work progresses at an
astounding rate designed to be the
foundation of rapture workers toil
around the clock to create the
metropolis you see today
you
my name is Andrew Ryan I built the city
of Rapture for children just like you
because the world above had become unfit
for us but here beneath the ocean it is
natural to wonder if the danger has
passed
if those we left behind will never come
to their senses so let us imagine you
will I what might befall us on the
surface
on the surface the farmer tilts the soil
trading the strength of his arm for a
whole lands of his own but the parasites
say no what was yours is ours we are
state we are gone we don't have our
share
the parasite makes nothing for itself
his only tools are taxes and it ties the
meta tricky with offering what it has
not burned in rapture we need four hours
on the service scientists invests the
power of his mind in a single miraculous
idea and naturally begins to rise above
his fellows but the parasites say no
discovery must be regulated
it must be controlled and finally
surrendered an artist strives to frame
his ideals in a decayed to challenge his
audience and make his vision immortal of
the parasites a your art must serve the
cause your ideals endanger the people
lacking its own ingenuity the parasite
fears the visionary
but it cannot plagiarize it seeks to set
but it cannot regulate it seeks to bare
rapture was founded on an idea and here
they are held inviolate
on the surface your parents sought a
private life using their great talents
to provide they learn to twist the lies
church in government believing
themselves masters of the system but the
parasite said the child has a duty you
will go to war and die for the nation
unable to provide for itself the need of
the parasite grows until war is made to
justify your parents brought you to
rapture where you need never fear the
parasites again so you see there is no
place for you on the surface but you may
bring the world to you if you know
someone who belongs in rapture right
I'll enter to the riot industries
mailroom and you never know the next new
face might be familiar
I know this facility is vital to the
preservation of secrecy and rapture but
seeing myself transformed into that
lurching flaxen vitamin the children
truly respond to this still I spoke to a
young man exiting the park asking him
what if anything he had learned he said
his chores didn't seem so bad anymore